Give user information how to increase the inotify limits (#13573)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/running-builds/gradle_daemon.adoc

Put `org.gradle.unsafe.watch-fs=true` in your `gradle.properties`::
This enables watching the file system for all builds, unless explicitly disabled with `--no-watch-fs`.

> Here are some operating system specific notes.

Reviewer: This sounds weird. A section saying "OS-specific notes" would be better IMO.

===  Linux

On Linux, file system watching uses inotify.

> Depending on the size of your build, it may be necessary to increase inotify limits.

Reviewer: Should we somehow acknowledge the fact that if you are using an IDE already, then you probably already had to increase them?

[[sec:inotify_watches_limit]]
Inotify watches limit::
To raise the inotify watches limit see https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/IDEADEV/Inotify+Watches+Limit[here].

[[sec:inotify_instances_limit]]
Inotify instances limit::
To raise the inotify instances limit see https://confluence.jetbrains.com/display/IDEADEV/Inotify+Instances+Limit[here].

> 

Reviewer: Why are we linking to JetBrains docs? I think we should instead copy that part, or link to inotify's own docs or something.

--
In both cases the build cannot benefit from file system watching.

`java.io.IOException: Too many open files`::
If you receive this error on macOS, you need to raise your open files limit, see https://superuser.com/a/443168/8117[here].

===  Linux-specific notes

File system watching uses http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inotify[inotify] on Linux.
Depending on the size of your build, it may be necessary to increase inotify limits.
If you are using an IDE, then you probably already had to increase the limits in the past.

[[sec:inotify_watches_limit]]

> Inotify watches limit::

Reviewer: Now this remains the only element of this description list (or whatever `*:` is called). I think we can remove it.

File system watching uses one inotify watch per watched directory.
You can see the current limit of inotify watches per user by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
cat /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
----
+
To increase the limit to e.g. 512K watches run the following:
+
[source,bash]
----
echo 524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
sudo sysctl -p --system
----
+
Each used inotify watch takes up to 1KB of memory.
Assuming inotify uses all the 512K watches then around 500MB will be used for watching the file system.

> If your environment is memory constraint, you may want to consider setting a lower limit.

Reviewer: I don't think this is the right message here. If you hit whatever limit you set, we'll stop watching the file system. If you don't hit your limit, then you should be fine. So maybe if you have a memory constrained system, you shouldn't use file system watching in the first place.

--
In both cases the build cannot benefit from file system watching.

`java.io.IOException: Too many open files`::
If you receive this error on macOS, you need to raise your open files limit, see https://superuser.com/a/443168/8117[here].

> ===  Linux specific notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
===  Linux-specific notes
```

Author: Fixed.

> File system watching uses http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inotify[Inotify] on Linux.

Reviewer: The word `inotify` is all lower-case, even in the title of the Wikipedia page, I think that's how we should use it here, too (unless at the start of a sentence). If we want to highlight it, maybe using a monospace font would be appropriate.

Author: I changed it all to lower-case.

Depending on the size of your build, it may be necessary to increase Inotify limits.

> If you are using an IDE, then you probably already did increase the limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an IDE, then you probably already had to increase the limits in the past.
```

[[sec:inotify_watches_limit]]
Inotify watches limit::
File system watching uses one Inotify watch per watched directory.
You can see the current limit of Inotify watches per user by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
cat /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
----
+

> To increase the limit to e.g. 512K watches:

Reviewer: I think we should address the memory impact of doing this. This here says the cost of each watch is around 1K of memory: https://blog.passcod.name/2017/jun/25/inotify-watch-limit#:~:text=An%20INotify%20watch%20costs%20540,this%20time%20in%20swappable%20memory).

However, IIUC only the actually used watches actually consume memory: https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages//man7/inotify.7.html#:~:text=/proc%20interfaces

Author: I added some information about the memory impact.

> 1. Add the following line to either `/etc/sysctl.conf` or a new `*.conf` file under `/etc/sysctl.d/` directory:

Reviewer: I'd just give one option (to edit `/etc/sysctl.conf`, people who want to create a new file are probably already familiar with how you can do that.

I'd even prefer just this:

```text
echo 524288 | sudo tee /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
sudo sysctl -p --system
```

The main point is that I think it should be possible for most users to copy-paste instructions that would work, and get on with their lives.

Reviewer: We could even add a command to increase `max_user_instances`, though I don't think doing that is necessary.

Author: I changed the instructions.

+
[source,properties]
----
fs.inotify.max_user_watches = 524288
----
2. Then run this command to apply the change:
+
[source,bash]
----
sudo sysctl -p --system
----

[[sec:inotify_instances_limit]]

> Inotify instances limit::

Reviewer: Do we need to talk about this case at all? I never saw anyone run into limitations with this one. If they do, we can just give the error message explaining that they ran out of inotify instances, and they can do their research from there.

Author: I removed the section about the instance limit. You are probably right that users don't seem to hit it in the wild.

File system watching initializes an Inotify instance per daemon.
While the default per-user instant limit is usually high enough, you may hit that limit if you have many programs running which also use Inotify.
You can see the current limit of Inotify instances per user by running:
+
[source,bash]
----
cat /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_instances
----

> You can temporarily increase the limit to e.g. 256 instances by running:

Reviewer: I don't think temporary increase is a goal here. I think here we should only give people the steps to fix the problems in the easiest way possible. They can look up other usages elsewhere if needed.

Author: I used the approach in the Jetbrains docs. I think they suggest a temporary increase since you only bump into this when are doing something strange. You need to have more than 128 processes doing file system watching via inotify at the same time.
